hello and welcome to another music
lesson with me fake dr. Lebon
today I'm going to show you a way to
compose chord progressions that is both
simple and heeds really interesting
outside-of-the-box results what we're
going to do is pick one note for our top
note for each chord voicing let's do D
on the 3rd fret B string now what I'm
going to do is I'm going to pick any
chord that I can think of that has D on
top and see what happens so basically
the only rule I'm gonna follow it can be
any key any random chords at all just
going to make sure they have a D on top
just playing any chord that comes to my
fingers basically and keeping D on top
you can hear that all the chords sound
connected even though they're in random
keys and placed in a pretty chaotic
fashion so you can end up with really
neat chord progressions like this one
so it's a pretty simple process just
pick a high note and use it as a pivot
point and make sure every core that you
play no matter what chord it is has that
note on top and you can get some really
interesting chord progressions let me
know if you have any questions
specifically about chord progressions or
composing chord progressions because I'd
love to do more videos on this topic of
just coming up with great chord
progressions and learning cool voice